Refactor data migration docs (#7202)
pingcap/docs: data-migration/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md

---
title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Less Than 1 TiB to TiDB
summary: Learn how to consolidate MySQL shards of less than 1 TiB to TiDB.
---

# Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Less Than 1 TiB to TiDB

If you want to migrate and merge multiple MySQL database instances upstream to one TiDB database downstream, and the amount of data is not too large (for example, the sum of all MySQL shards is less than 1 TiB), you can use DM to migrate MySQL shards. Through examples in this document, you can learn the operation steps, precautions, and troubleshooting of the migration.

> This document applies to migrating MySQL shards less than 1 TiB in total. If you want to migrate MySQL shards with a total of more than 1 TiB of data, it will take a long time by using DM. In this case, it is recommended that you follow the operation introduced in [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md) to perform migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document applies to migrating MySQL shards less than 1 TiB in total. If you want to migrate MySQL shards with a total of more than 1 TiB of data, it will take a long time by using DM. In this case, it is recommended that you follow the operation introduced in [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TB to TiDB](/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md) to perform migration.
```

Reviewer: 避免用户当成 Typo 错误，我们还是打算吧标题中的 TiB 改为 TB.......

This document takes a simple example to illustrate the migration procedure. The MySQL shards of the two data source MySQL instances in the example are migrated to the downstream TiDB cluster. The diagram is shown as follows.

![Use DM to Migrate Sharded Tables](/media/migrate-shard-tables-within-1tb-en.png)

> 

Author: This part in the Chinese verion seems redundant.

Assume that data sources MySQL Instance 1 and MySQL Instance 2 use the same table structure as follows:

  | Schema | Table |
  |:------|:------|
  | store_01 | sale_01, sale_02 |
  | store_02 | sale_01, sale_02 |

Target schemas and tables：

| Schema | Table |
|:------|:------|
| store | sale |

## Prerequisites

Before starting the migration, make sure you have completed the following tasks:

- [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup)
- [Privileges required by DM-worker](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro#privileges-required-by-dm-worker)

> ### Check conflicts for the sharded tables

Author: OK. Updated.

> If the migration involves sharded tables, data from multiple sharded tables may cause conflicts for primary keys or unique indexes. Therefore, before migration, you need to check the business characteristics of each sharded table. For more details, see [Handle conflicts between primary keys or unique indexes across multiple sharded tables](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-between-primary-keys-or-unique-indexes-across-multiple-sharded-tables).

Author: ```suggestion
If the migration involves merging data from different sharded tables, primary key or unique index conflicts may occur during the merge. Therefore, before migration, you need to take a deep look at the current sharding scheme from the business point of view, and find a way to avoid the conflicts. For more details, see [Handle conflicts between primary keys or unique indexes across multiple sharded tables](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-between-primary-keys-or-unique-indexes-across-multiple-sharded-tables). The following is a brief description.
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE `sale_01` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `sid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `pid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `comment` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `sid` (`sid`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
```

The `id` column is the primary key, and the `sid` column is the sharding key. The `id` column is auto-incremental, and duplicated multiple sharded table ranges will cause data conflicts. The `sid` can ensure that the index is globally unique, so you can follow the steps in [Remove the primary key attribute of the auto-incremental primary key](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#remove-the-primary-key-attribute-from-the-column) to bypasses the `id` column.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE `sale` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `sid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `pid` bigint(20) NOT NULL,
  `comment` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  INDEX (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `sid` (`sid`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
```

## Step 1: Load data sources

Create a file named `source1.yaml`. The configuration file is as follows:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

> ```yaml

Author: OK

> Create a data source configuration file named `source1.yaml`. The configuration file is as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
Create a new data source file called `source1.yaml`, which configures an upstream data source into DM, and add the following content:
```

> # Configuration.
> source-id: "mysql-01" # Must be unique.
> 
> # Specifies whether DM-worker pulls binlogs with GTID (Global Transaction Identifier).
> # The prerequisite is that you have already enabled GTID in the upstream MySQL.
> # If the upstream database has configured automatic primary switch-over between different nodes, you must enable the GTID mode.
> enable-gtid: false
> from:
>   host: "${host}" # For example: 172.16.10.81
>   user: "root"
>   password: "${password}" # Plaintext passwords are supported but not recommended. It is recommended that you use dmctl encrypt to encrypt plaintext passwords.
>   port: 3306

Author: ```suggestion
# Configuration.
source-id: "mysql-01" # Must be unique.
# Specifies whether DM-worker pulls binlogs with GTID (Global Transaction Identifier).
# The prerequisite is that you have already enabled GTID in the upstream MySQL.
# If you have configured the upstream database service to switch master between different nodes automatically, you must enable GTID.
enable-gtid: true
from:
  host: "${host}"           # For example: 172.16.10.81
  user: "root"
  password: "${password}"   # Plaintext passwords are supported but not recommended. It is recommended that you use dmctl encrypt to encrypt plaintext passwords.
  port: ${port}             # For example: 3306
```

```

Run the following command in a terminal. Use `tiup dmctl` to load the data source configuration into the DM cluster:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create source1.yaml
```

The parameters are described as follows.

|Parameter      | Description |
|-              |-            |
|--master-addr         | {advertise-addr} of any DM-master node in the cluster that dmctl connects to. For example: 172.16.10.71:8261|
|operate-source create | Load data sources to the DM cluster. |

Repeat the above steps until all data sources are added to the DM cluster.

## Step 2: Configure the migration task

Create a file named `task1.yaml` and writes the following content to it:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: The common comments in the config here should better be consistent with all the documents referring a task config file.

> |operate-source create | Load data sources to the DM cluster. |

Author: ```suggestion
|operate-source create | Load data sources to the DM clusters. |
```

> name: "shard_merge"

Author: ```suggestion
name: "shard_merge"               # The name of the task. Should be globally unique.
```

ignore-checking-items: ["auto_increment_ID"]  # In this example, there are auto-incremental primary keys upstream, so you do not need to check this item.

target-database:
  host: "${host}"                             # For example: 192.168.0.1
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: "${password}"                     # Plaintext passwords are supported but not recommended. It is recommended that you use dmctl encrypt to encrypt plaintext passwords.

mysql-instances:
  -
    source-id: "mysql-01"                                    # ID of the data source, which is source-id in source1.yaml
    route-rules: ["sale-route-rule"]                         # Table route rules applied to the data source
    filter-rules: ["store-filter-rule", "sale-filter-rule"]  # Binlog event filter rules applied to the data source
    block-allow-list:  "log-bak-ignored"                     # Block & Allow Lists rules applied to the data source
  -
    source-id: "mysql-02"
    route-rules: ["sale-route-rule"]
    filter-rules: ["store-filter-rule", "sale-filter-rule"]
    block-allow-list:  "log-bak-ignored"

# Configurations for merging MySQL shards

> routes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
routes:    # Table renaming rules  ('routes') from upstream to downstream tables, in order to support merging different table partitions into a single target table. 
```

>   sale-route-rule:

Reviewer 2: Better put a comment here will be better, describing what does this rule do.  (Also in Chinese version)

    schema-pattern: "store_*"
    table-pattern: "sale_*"
    target-schema: "store"
    target-table:  "sale"

# Filters out some DDL events.
filters:

>   sale-filter-rule:

Reviewer 2: Better put a comment here, describing what does this rule do and why we need this.  (Also in Chinese version)

    schema-pattern: "store_*"
    table-pattern: "sale_*"
    events: ["truncate table", "drop table", "delete"]
    action: Ignore

>   store-filter-rule:

Reviewer 2: Better put a comment here, describing what does this rule do and why we need this. (Also in Chinese version)

>   sale-route-rule:
>     schema-pattern: "store_*"
>     table-pattern: "sale_*"
>     target-schema: "store"
>     target-table:  "sale"

Author: ```suggestion
  sale-route-rule:                        # Rule name. Migrate and merge tables from upstream to the downstream.
    schema-pattern: "store_*"     # Rule for matching upstream schema names. It supports the wildcards "*" and "?".
    table-pattern: "sale_*"           # Rule for matching upstream table names. It supports the wildcards "*" and "?".
    target-schema: "store"          # Name of the target schema.
    target-table:  "sale"               # Name of the target table.
```

> filters:
>   sale-filter-rule:
>     schema-pattern: "store_*"
>     table-pattern: "sale_*"
>     events: ["truncate table", "drop table", "delete"]
>     action: Ignore
>   store-filter-rule:
>     schema-pattern: "store_*"
>     events: ["drop database"]
>     action: Ignore

Author: ```suggestion
filters:
  sale-filter-rule:                                                          # Filter name.
    schema-pattern: "store_*"                                      # The binlog events or DDL SQL statements of upstream MySQL  instance schemas that match schema-pattern are filtered by the rules below.
    table-pattern: "sale_*"                                            # The binlog events or DDL SQL statements of upstream MySQL  instance tables that match table-pattern are filtered by the rules below.
    events: ["truncate table", "drop table", "delete"]   # The binlog event array.
    action: Ignore                                                         # The string (`Do`/`Ignore`). `Do` is the allow list. `Ignore` is the block list.
  store-filter-rule:
    schema-pattern: "store_*"
    events: ["drop database"]
    action: Ignore
```

# Block and allow list

> block-allow-list:

Author: ```suggestion
block-allow-list:          # filter or only migrate all operations of some databases or some tables.
```

>   log-bak-ignored:
>     do-dbs: ["store_*"]

Author: ```suggestion
  log-bak-ignored:          # Rule name.
    do-dbs: ["store_*"]      # The allow list of the schemas to be migrated, similar to replicate-do-db in MySQL.
```

```

The above example is the minimum configuration to perform the migration task. For more information, see [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/task-configuration-file-full).

For more information on `routes`, `filters` and other configurations in the task file, see the following documents:

- [Table routing](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#table-routing)
- [Block & Allow Table Lists](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#block-and-allow-table-lists)
- [Binlog event filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#binlog-event-filter)
- [Filter Certain Row Changes Using SQL Expressions](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-expression-filter)

## Step 3: Start the task

> Before starting a migration task, run the `check-task` command to check whether the configuration meets the requirements of DM so as to avoid possible errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before starting a migration task, run the `check-task` subcommand in `tiup dmctl` to check whether the configuration meets the requirements of DM so as to avoid possible errors.
```

This document takes a simple example to illustrate the migration procedure. The MySQL shards of the two data source MySQL instances in the example are migrated to the downstream TiDB cluster. The diagram is shown as follows.

![Use DM to Migrate Sharded Tables](/media/migrate-shard-tables-within-1tb-en.png)

Assume that data source MySQL Instance 1 and MySQL Instance 2 use the same table structure as follows:

  | Schema | Tables |
  |:------|:------|
  | store_01 | sale_01, sale_02 |
  | store_02 | sale_01, sale_02 |

Target schemas and tables：

| Schema | Tables |
|:------|:------|
| store | sale |

## Prerequisites

Before starting the migration, make sure you have completed the following tasks:

- [Use TiUP to Deploy a DM cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup)
- [Get upstream and downstream database permissions](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro)

### Check conflicts for the sharded tables

> Because the sharded tables are involved in the migration, data from multiple sharded tables may cause data conflicts in the primary key or unique index. Therefore, before the migration, you need to check the sharded table. For details, see [Cross table data conflict handling in primary key or unique index](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-between-primary-keys-or-unique-indexes-across-multiple-sharded-tables).

Author: ```suggestion
If the migration involves sharded tables, data from multiple sharded tables may cause conflicts for primary keys or unique indexes. Therefore, before migration, you need to check the business characteristics of each sharded table. For more details, see Handle conflicts between primary keys or unique indexes across multiple sharded tables.
```

> Because the sharded tables are involved in the migration, data from multiple sharded tables may cause data conflicts in the primary key or unique index. Therefore, before the migration, you need to check the sharded table. For details, see [Cross table data conflict handling in primary key or unique index](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-between-primary-keys-or-unique-indexes-across-multiple-sharded-tables).

Author: 好的。我copy过来。

  -
    source-id: "mysql-02"
    route-rules: ["sale-route-rule"]
    filter-rules: ["store-filter-rule", "sale-filter-rule"]
    block-allow-list:  "log-bak-ignored"

# Configurations for merging MySQL shards
routes:
  sale-route-rule:
    schema-pattern: "store_*"
    table-pattern: "sale_*"
    target-schema: "store"
    target-table:  "sale"

# Filters some DDL events.
filters:
  sale-filter-rule:
    schema-pattern: "store_*"
    table-pattern: "sale_*"
    events: ["truncate table", "drop table", "delete"]
    action: Ignore
  store-filter-rule:
    schema-pattern: "store_*"
    events: ["drop database"]
    action: Ignore

# Block and allow list
block-allow-list:
  log-bak-ignored:
    do-dbs: ["store_*"]
```

The above example is the minimum configuration to perform the migration task. For more information, see [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/task-configuration-file-full/).

For more information on `routes`, `filters` and other configurations in the task file, see the following documents:

- [Table routing](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#table-routing)

> - [Block & Allow Table Lists](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#block--allow-table-lists)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Block & Allow Table Lists](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#block-and-allow-table-lists)
```

- [Binlog event filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/key-features#binlog-event-filter)

> - [Binlog expression filter](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-expression-filter)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Filter Certain Row Changes Using SQL Expressions](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-expression-filter)
```

## Step 3: Start the task

> You can use the [Pre-check](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck) feature to spot configuration errors in the data migration task in advance. When data migration starts, DM will automatically check related permissions and configurations.
> 
> You can also use the `check-task` command to manually check whether the configurations of the upstream MySQL instance meet the requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before starting a migration task, run the `check-task` command to check whether the configuration meets the requirements of DM so as to avoid possible errors.
```
根据原文做的修改

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} check-task task.yaml
```

> Use the `dmctl` command to start the migration task:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the following command in `tiup dmctl` to start a migration task:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} start-task task.yaml
```

| Parameter | Description|
|-|-|
|--master-addr| {advertise-addr} of any DM-master node in the cluster that dmctl connects to. For example: 172.16.10.71:8261 |
|start-task   | Starts the data migration task. |

> 

Reviewer 3: Will review the rest later.
